In the late 90s years,  a groundbreaking electric car called the EV1, quickly  drew a loyal and hardcore following. But the spark behind GM’s first Eevee ended abruptly in 2003 electric car enthusiasts gathered in California and and a mock funeral for the car which was discontinued and cancelled by GM.
The automaked claimed there was not enough markt demand to keep the Eevee dream alive so they rounded up the cars, shipped  them off to the desert and crush them under the scorching Sun
The death of the EV1 was a defining moment for electrical vehicul, not because it was an early setback for the green movement, but because it was also a catalyst for rebirth
The destruction of the EV1 inspired the creation of Tesla Motors. In 2003, 2 Silicon valley engineers, Martin Eberhard and Mark Tarpenning sold their eBook business for $187M and started Tesla to build a greener car.
Elon Musk joined as an  early investor, leading the series a financing and taking on several other roles as well.
Tesla’s plan was simple but potentially genius:
One, focus on Li-ion batteries which they expected to get cheaper and more powerful for many years .
Two, start with a high margin, a high performance sports car. The aim was to shed existing stigma around EVs and use the revenue to fund a more affordable car.
And three, achieve economies of scale so that Tesla could target other segments like semi trucks.
Tesla also planned to integrate energy generation and storage in the home and develop other emerging technologies like autonomous vehicles.
With the plan set, the company was ready to build its high-performance low volume sports car : the Roadster.
Tesla wanted to reduce complex manufacturing, by plugging the Tesla developed battery and powertrain into the existing chassis of the Lotus Elise. 
However, the company began customizing more and more parts which made costs spiral out of control.
By the end, the Roadster and the Elise had little in common, just 7% of parts by count. 
Tesla was on the verge of bankruptcy and several CEOs came and went.
Eventually, Elon Musk took the job in October 2008. 
Musk made drastic changes to save the company. he cut 25% of the workforce recalled 75% the roadsters raised 40 million dollars of dept financing formed a strategic partnership with daimler and borrowed $465M from the government
A total of 2450 Roadsters were made. And the iconomic car became the springball for the EV revolution. Each Roadster have a 992 Ib Lithium-Cobalt Battery, giving the car an impressive 244 mile range this reduced range anxiety and made Evs more appealing to the masses in 2010 tesla ipo don the Nasdaq raising 226 million dollars it was the first american car company to go public since Ford in 1956. the car marker then aimed for a wider market by focusing on two new cars model s and Model X the two models were poised for success but tesla’s ultimate potential still seemed limited by the high cost of lithium-ion batteries after all if batteries were too expensive EVS could never compete with gas on price and they would never be mainstream. To combat this in 2013 Elon Musk revealed ambitious plans for the tesla gigafactory a massive operation to reach economies of scale in lithium ion battery production and ultimately make ** cheaper than gas-powered vehicles as tesla  built its giga factory it hit many other (4:00) milestones the company released autopilot giving the model s semi-autonomous capabilities the powerwall was revealed a lithium ion battery for the home finally it announced the model 3 the car for the masses in 2016. By the end of 2017, Tesla passed Ford and market value just seven years after its IPO to understand Tesla’s ambitions for the future you need to know two things their mission which is to accelerate the world transition to sustainable energy and their strategy which is to productize the factory so that vehicle assembly can be automated at a revolutionary pace Tesla knows that building a few electric cars won’t make a dent in the global energy picture  which is why it’s using its factory tech to go bigger and better the tesla semi will go from zero to 60 with an 80 000 pound payload in just 20 seconds. Musk also says he wants to build a pickup truck an Eevee is designed for a high passenger density urban transport the model Y will be a crossover built on the model 3 platform and there will be an ultra low cost model built as the company achieved scale to do this it will also need bigger and better GIGAFACTORIES. Tesla also wants to change the entire energy para*** by popularizing an ecosystem that allows homeowners to run their appliances and card off green energy and even sell it back to the grid Tesla’s goals are ambitious and the company’s strategy is even considered naive by some but if Elon Musk and Tesla can perfect the building of the machine that builds the machine all bets will be off the question is will Tesla achieve their ambitious goals ?
